README.md, before:

# Note Taking App

A full-stack note-taking application built with Node.js, Express, PostgreSQL, and vanilla JavaScript. Features user authentication, CRUD operations for notes, and a modern responsive UI.

This app was generated by Cursor in _Agent_ mode and using _Auto_ for model choice, on August 25, 2025 using the following prompt

```
Please build me a note taking app in Node.js. Make it allow users to register and to login. Use PostgreSQL (with Docker)
```

## Features

- **User Authentication**: Secure registration and login system with JWT tokens
- **Note Management**: Create, read, update, and delete notes
- **Responsive Design**: Modern UI that works on desktop and mobile devices
- **Real-time Updates**: Notes are updated in real-time across the interface
- **Secure**: Password hashing with bcrypt and JWT-based authentication
- **Database**: PostgreSQL database with proper relationships and constraints

## Tech Stack

- **Backend**: Node.js, Express.js
- **Database**: PostgreSQL
- **Authentication**: JWT, bcrypt
- **Frontend**: Vanilla JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3
- **Containerization**: Docker & Docker Compose

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (v14 or higher)
- Docker and Docker Compose
- Git

## Installation & Setup

### 1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd note-taking-app-nodejs
```

### 2. Install dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

### 3. Start PostgreSQL with Docker
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

This will start a PostgreSQL container with the following configuration:
- Database: `note_taking_app`
- Username: `postgres`
- Password: `postgres`
- Port: `5432`

### 4. Start the application
```bash
# Development mode with auto-reload
npm run dev

# Production mode
npm start
```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:3000`

## API Endpoints

### Authentication
- `POST /api/register` - User registration
- `POST /api/login` - User login
- `GET /api/profile` - Get user profile (protected)

### Notes (All protected endpoints)
- `GET /api/notes` - Get all notes for the authenticated user
- `POST /api/notes` - Create a new note
- `GET /api/notes/:id` - Get a specific note
- `PUT /api/notes/:id` - Update a note
- `DELETE /api/notes/:id` - Delete a note

## Database Schema

### Users Table
```sql
CREATE TABLE users (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  username VARCHAR(50) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
  email VARCHAR(100) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
  password_hash VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);
```

### Notes Table
```sql
CREATE TABLE notes (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  user_id INTEGER REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
  title VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  content TEXT,
  created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
  updated_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);
```

## Usage

1. **Register/Login**: Create an account or log in with existing credentials
2. **Create Notes**: Use the form at the top to create new notes
3. **View Notes**: All your notes are displayed in a responsive grid layout
4. **Edit Notes**: Click on any note to open the edit modal
5. **Delete Notes**: Use the delete button in the edit modal to remove notes

## Environment Variables

The application uses the following default configuration (hardcoded for simplicity):

- Database Host: `localhost`
- Database Port: `5432`
- Database Name: `note_taking_app`
- Database User: `postgres`
- Database Password: `postgres`
- JWT Secret: `your-super-secret-jwt-key-change-this-in-production`
- Server Port: `3000`

**Note**: In production, these values should be moved to environment variables.

## Security Features

- **Password Hashing**: Passwords are hashed using bcrypt with salt rounds
- **JWT Authentication**: Secure token-based authentication
- **Input Validation**: Server-side validation for all inputs
- **SQL Injection Protection**: Parameterized queries using pg library
- **CORS**: Cross-origin resource sharing enabled for development

## Development

### Project Structure
```
note-taking-app-nodejs/
├── server.js              # Main server file
├── package.json           # Dependencies and scripts
├── docker-compose.yml     # PostgreSQL container setup
├── public/                # Frontend files
│   ├── index.html        # Main HTML file
│   ├── styles.css        # CSS styles
│   └── app.js            # Frontend JavaScript
└── README.md             # This file
```

### Available Scripts
- `npm start` - Start the production server
- `npm run dev` - Start the development server with nodemon

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Database Connection Error**
   - Ensure Docker is running
   - Check if PostgreSQL container is up: `docker ps`
   - Verify port 5432 is not in use by another service

2. **Port Already in Use**
   - Change the port in `server.js` or kill the process using port 3000

3. **Dependencies Installation Issues**
   - Clear npm cache: `npm cache clean --force`
   - Delete node_modules and package-lock.json, then run `npm install`

### Docker Commands

```bash
# View running containers
docker ps

# View logs
docker-compose logs postgres

# Stop containers
docker-compose down

# Remove containers and volumes
docker-compose down -v
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Future Enhancements

- [ ] Rich text editor for notes
- [ ] Note categories and tags
- [ ] Search functionality
- [ ] File attachments
- [ ] Note sharing
- [ ] Dark mode theme
- [ ] Mobile app
- [ ] API rate limiting
- [ ] User roles and permissions

Commit message:

docs: update MCP servers info

README.md, after:

# Note Taking App

A full-stack note-taking application built with Node.js, Express, PostgreSQL, and vanilla JavaScript. Features user authentication, CRUD operations for notes, and a modern responsive UI.

This app was generated by Cursor in _Agent_ mode and using _Auto_ for model choice, on August 25, 2025 using the following prompt

```
Please build me a note taking app in Node.js. Make it allow users to register and to login. Use PostgreSQL (with Docker)
```

## Features

- **User Authentication**: Secure registration and login system with JWT tokens
- **Note Management**: Create, read, update, and delete notes
- **Responsive Design**: Modern UI that works on desktop and mobile devices
- **Real-time Updates**: Notes are updated in real-time across the interface
- **Secure**: Password hashing with bcrypt and JWT-based authentication
- **Database**: PostgreSQL database with proper relationships and constraints
- **MCP Servers**: Includes Playwright and GitMCP Express docs for easy agentic coding

## Tech Stack

- **Backend**: Node.js, Express.js
- **Database**: PostgreSQL
- **Authentication**: JWT, bcrypt
- **Frontend**: Vanilla JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3
- **Containerization**: Docker & Docker Compose

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (v14 or higher)
- Docker and Docker Compose
- Git

## Installation & Setup

### 1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd note-taking-app-nodejs
```

### 2. Install dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

### 3. Start PostgreSQL with Docker
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

This will start a PostgreSQL container with the following configuration:
- Database: `note_taking_app`
- Username: `postgres`
- Password: `postgres`
- Port: `5432`

### 4. Start the application
```bash
# Development mode with auto-reload
npm run dev

# Production mode
npm start
```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:3000`

## API Endpoints

### Authentication
- `POST /api/register` - User registration
- `POST /api/login` - User login
- `GET /api/profile` - Get user profile (protected)

### Notes (All protected endpoints)
- `GET /api/notes` - Get all notes for the authenticated user
- `POST /api/notes` - Create a new note
- `GET /api/notes/:id` - Get a specific note
- `PUT /api/notes/:id` - Update a note
- `DELETE /api/notes/:id` - Delete a note

## Database Schema

### Users Table
```sql
CREATE TABLE users (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  username VARCHAR(50) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
  email VARCHAR(100) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
  password_hash VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);
```

### Notes Table
```sql
CREATE TABLE notes (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  user_id INTEGER REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
  title VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  content TEXT,
  created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
  updated_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);
```

## Usage

1. **Register/Login**: Create an account or log in with existing credentials
2. **Create Notes**: Use the form at the top to create new notes
3. **View Notes**: All your notes are displayed in a responsive grid layout
4. **Edit Notes**: Click on any note to open the edit modal
5. **Delete Notes**: Use the delete button in the edit modal to remove notes

## Environment Variables

The application uses the following default configuration (hardcoded for simplicity):

- Database Host: `localhost`
- Database Port: `5432`
- Database Name: `note_taking_app`
- Database User: `postgres`
- Database Password: `postgres`
- JWT Secret: `your-super-secret-jwt-key-change-this-in-production`
- Server Port: `3000`

**Note**: In production, these values should be moved to environment variables.

## Security Features

- **Password Hashing**: Passwords are hashed using bcrypt with salt rounds
- **JWT Authentication**: Secure token-based authentication
- **Input Validation**: Server-side validation for all inputs
- **SQL Injection Protection**: Parameterized queries using pg library
- **CORS**: Cross-origin resource sharing enabled for development

## Development

### Project Structure
```
note-taking-app-nodejs/
├── server.js              # Main server file
├── package.json           # Dependencies and scripts
├── docker-compose.yml     # PostgreSQL container setup
├── public/                # Frontend files
│   ├── index.html        # Main HTML file
│   ├── styles.css        # CSS styles
│   └── app.js            # Frontend JavaScript
└── README.md             # This file
```

### Available Scripts
- `npm start` - Start the production server
- `npm run dev` - Start the development server with nodemon

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Database Connection Error**
   - Ensure Docker is running
   - Check if PostgreSQL container is up: `docker ps`
   - Verify port 5432 is not in use by another service

2. **Port Already in Use**
   - Change the port in `server.js` or kill the process using port 3000

3. **Dependencies Installation Issues**
   - Clear npm cache: `npm cache clean --force`
   - Delete node_modules and package-lock.json, then run `npm install`

### Docker Commands

```bash
# View running containers
docker ps

# View logs
docker-compose logs postgres

# Stop containers
docker-compose down

# Remove containers and volumes
docker-compose down -v
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly
5. Submit a pull request

## MCP

You can scan for the security of MCP servers with [mcp-scan](https://github.com/invariantlabs-ai/mcp-scan)

```sh
uvx mcp-scan .cursor/mcp.json
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Future Enhancements

- [ ] Rich text editor for notes
- [ ] Note categories and tags
- [ ] Search functionality
- [ ] File attachments
- [ ] Note sharing
- [ ] Dark mode theme
- [ ] Mobile app
- [ ] API rate limiting
- [ ] User roles and permissions
